Hey everyone welcome back we're so glad that you're joining us my name is drew and my name is annie and we're so excited to continue with you and your group along on this journey
journey of going through the book of Mark. Today we're going to be continuing the conversation looking at chapters 15 and 16 in Mark.
Mark talking about one of the greatest stories if not the best story in the Bible. And we just want to start off with a question for you to think about.
Think about yourself and we want to ask, have you ever experienced a time where you felt a wave of discouragement that overwhelmed you or overcame you?
Has there ever been a time where you felt like hope was just out of reach? Like what was that moment?
What were you in? What brought those feelings out?
Yeah, Drew, I know as you say that I'm immediately brought back to my senior year of college about four years ago. I was a freshman RA for 33 years.
23 girls, which was wild. I was in 18 units or more of school, and I was interning at a church, and it was too much of a good thing. Okay.
I was so overwhelmed.
So overloaded I was falling short in my friendships my grades were falling I was not doing well because I was so overloaded
overwhelmed. And I remember thinking, will this season ever end? How will I ever graduate and survive?
Yeah. And I know, Drew, we're really good friends. I'm close with your family. And we were able as a church to walk through one of the most challenging and unforeseen situations.
situations that anyone I think ever could walk through. Would you tell us a little bit about that? Yeah, I think a moment of like discouragement and hopelessness for for me and my wife
Me and my wife from my family was, my daughter Ada, she was diagnosed with stage three cancer at one years old. And specifically, I remember this one moment where it was so weird.
So real. And the discouragement was so present. We're sitting with the charge nurse who's head of the pediatric oncology floor. She's having a sit down.
it down going over all the details about Ada, but then she goes over to more family stuff and then she's asking like, how's your support system? And she asks this question because
Because she was saying like
Most marriages don't last through this type of journey So I hope you have a good like friends and family to come around you and support you and it was in that moment that we realized it's like man this is not
And this is not just affecting our daughter, but this is going to affect our family. This affects our jobs. This affects everything, all of our rhythms. And in that moment, it was...
It was really overwhelming because, man, it feels hopeless to that sense. Yeah.
So I think a question that we had to ask and a question that we asked a lot through that journey and I'm sure you asked through your time was what can you do in discouraging times?
What do you do in hopeless times? And sometimes you can feel really alone in those moments as well.
And in our text today in Mark 15 and 16, we have people that have experienced really the same thing through Jesus' story here. They experienced just
discouragement, they experience pain and anguish and hopelessness with this because in Mark 15 you have Pilate, he's really parading Jesus around.
And you have people stirring up the crowd as they crucify him, crucify him. Can you imagine being the one that loved Jesus, that walked with Jesus, that saw his miracles, and this is happening
happening to him in this moment. Let's continue like playing out the scene and the scenario and the story. Like now you have soldiers taking him away. Not only taking him away, it's becoming more real, right? But
But the crown of thorns are put on his head. There's that robe on him, and they're just mocking him now, who's the son of God. And who he said he was, now you're saying, like, you can save yourself.
Save yourself, but...
now they're just seeing him look weak and embarrassed in front of a group of people.
and then he ended up on the cross.
so all the promises of who he said he was like i'm the savior of the world right and you're like oh all those promises gonna come true like is this is all of our hope what was in of what was in.
Then what you said happened.
you can imagine how his disciples, how the people close to him and journey with him felt totally discouraged.
Totally hopeless in that moment.
So I think in discouragement, I think in hopelessness, there's a waiting, right? Don't you think there's like a waiting time? So in the waiting,
including
I think there's an enduring though and I know you wanted to share a little bit on that in the sense of what the waiting looks like with the Saturday we so I want you to share that with us
- Let's share that with them. - Yeah, you know, I think a lot of our life looks like this Saturday between Good Friday and Easter Sunday.
It's that waiting space where if I was close to Jesus, I would be like, where are you?
I just saw you work miracles. I just saw you change lives. I just saw you preach the gospel. And now you're
And now you're gone. What do I do? It would bring up a lot of questions and a lot of emotions. And I think a lot of things that we experience, even looking back,
back to this past year and moving in to 2021, we've asked a lot of the same questions. God, where are you? Where are you as I wait for my job for
promotion or where are you I just lost my job where am I gonna find another job or what do I do about choosing a college how am I
How am I ever going to make a decision like that? Or God, as I wait for my future spouse, what am I going to do in that space? And so much of it requires this endurance.
to keep pressing on and stay the course. - Yeah. I think for the waiting and through enduring like a relationship with Jesus, we says that changes everything.
everything and reading a book called Faith for Exiles and there's a quote that I love out of it that Christianity in a relationship with Jesus combats a purposeless
Life. That's so good. A relationship with Jesus combats just getting and going through the motions because how many times we're in the waiting, how many times when you are
you or I are in the waiting that we'll just try to endure, but it feels like there's no point. And then even more discouragement could come about. Well, I want to
I want to share what the Hebrew means and how it defines and endures. It means to lodge.
It means to stop over.
uh someone who just stays there for a night but then moves.
On
so i don't know about you can you relate to ah a season that was tough or how we're explaining it now like a night season a hard season that has remained and endured and it's.
and it seemed like the enemy has got its way. it seemed like discouragement has got its way. but yes, in those times like we don't have to be.
um discouraged or feel like hey there's there's not a light at the end of the tunnel we can be ones that wait and endure through discouragement through doubt and.
out and through hopelessness with purpose. Yeah.
yes it's still hard, yes it can still be painful but yes.
we don't have to be or think that this is for no reason and here's why and it's going to continue to mark 16 and I want to talk about Matthew 28
28 because it's talking about the resurrection and Matthew 28 really paints a really beautiful picture of this it says in Matthew 28 talks about right before the resurrection and
It described how there was a violent earthquake.
An angel came down from heaven and rolled the stone away.
And how true
That is for us as well. And here's what that means that right before, as we were talking about the night or a hard time leaves us or goes away or we get out.
And out of it, there's going to be a shaking,
There's gonna be a shaking that has a purpose come on so the waiting like we said the enduring and this tough time Yes, it's the shaking but it causes the stone to
stone to roll away. So man, I don't know the moments that you feel like really shook up and you're like, Lord, what are you doing? Just as Annie and described our stories, um,
um but we can know we can take confidence in that the lord knows what he's gonna take to get the roadblocks, the hindrances, whatever pain, whatever he's trying to do in our lives.
lives out of the way so we can experience fulfillment and
Joy in him in our lives in whatever circumstances we are in
I want to share a verse. I hope it encourages you. It's Ecclesiastes 3:11. It simply says, "He has made everything beautiful in its time."
And I think for us in the waiting, I think us in enduring, I think us in discouraging or hopelessness,
can get really to what we expect. This is how I want it to play out. Or, hey, this is what I'm expecting. If you don't do it this way, you're not doing it the way I want it to.
doing it the right way, right? But man, we can know that, you know,
He has a way and it's for our benefit. It's for our fulfillment and our joy. So practically any person
as we're just talking about how we can ah know that some of the shaky times the waiting the enduring times are purposed.
Yeah.
What are some practical things though to get us through and to help support and encourage us in the enduring, in the waiting? Will you share some of that?
Oh, yeah, of course. And I just want to say, too, I'm so encouraged that Saturday doesn't last forever. And I need people in my life to remind me of that. I loved what...
what your nurse shared with you. Although it was kind of felt like a doomsday conversation of this could happen, it was really a challenge to get in community. So if you're watching this
Watching this with your group, that's our first practical takeaway. Do life together. Challenge each other in godly community to hold one another up because
because I know that I need that when I'm walking through a season of discouragement. I wouldn't have survived my senior year of college if it wasn't for my roommate and some of my best friends.
friends who encouraged me along the way. And the second is to go back to those simple spiritual disciplines. Commit to reading your Bible every day. I know
I know when you're discouraged, it can feel almost impossible and almost like you don't want to go to God, but we want to challenge you to simply open up the Word of God.
and invite your community to challenge you to do that. And lastly, it's talking to God. Enter into prayer. Prayer is simply having a conversation with God and we
And we want to challenge you to do so. Bring God your...
Bring him your discouragement. Bring him your disappointments in the season. And he is such a good listener. And he will be a good listener.
He will be faithful to speak to you. And so that's what we're going to do right now. We're just going to close this time in prayer. And we want to encourage you to talk about this with your group.
Group let's pray
Lord, I thank you so much that as we see how you sent your son, Jesus, to stand in the place of our sin and to worship
And to rise and overcome death. That we can have hope. We can have a confident expectation in who you are. And that you are.
You allow us that space to come to you with our questions, to come to you with our discouragement, and that you're able to speak life back to us. God, I
God, I pray for our church and our community as we're celebrating Easter and we're celebrating what you've done in our lives, Lord. I pray that this message would just be an encouragement, right?
to our friends who are in a real season of discouragement. God, I pray you'd give them courage, you'd bring them hope, God, and that you would give them that godly commitment.
community that encourages one another, Lord, that we would be a safe place for people to ask questions and come to you, Lord. I thank you so much for what you're doing in our city.
how you've been so present in every moment of 2020 and 2021 and even when we don't even recognize that you're there. Lord, we're so grateful for what you're doing. Grateful to be a part of it.
part of it and we're so expectant for what's to come. You don't even pray.
Amen. Amen.